# Dataset Directory Structure

Please organize your files according to the following structure.

## Overall Structure

```bash
/
├── train/
│   ├── img/
│   ├── instance_mask/
│   ├── irregular_mask/
│   └── segment_mask/
│
├── val/
│   ├── img/
│   ├── instance_mask/
│   └── val_mask/
│
└── test/
    ├── img/
    ├── instance_mask/
    ├── outputs/
    └── test_mask/
```



## Detailed Directory Description

### 1. `train/` - Training Data

This directory contains all the data used for model training.

- `img/`: Stores the original training image files.

- `instance_mask/`: Stores the corresponding instance segmentation masks for the training images.

- `irregular_mask/`: Stores random irregular masks for training.

- `segment_mask/`: Stores  random segment masks for training.

  

### 2. `val/` - Validation Data

This directory contains the validation data used to evaluate the model's performance during the training process.

- `img/`: Stores the original validation image files.
- `instance_mask/`: Stores the corresponding instance segmentation masks for the validation images.
- `val_mask/`: Stores the mask files used for the validation process.



### 3. `test/` - Test Data

This directory contains the test data used for the final evaluation of the model's performance.

- `img/`: Stores the original test image files.
- `instance_mask/`: Stores the corresponding instance segmentation masks for the test images.
- `outputs/`: Used to store the output results generated by the model on the test set.
- `test_mask/`: Stores the specific mask files used for the testing process.

------

Please ensure your dataset is placed correctly according to the structure above so that the program can execute smoothly. Alternatively, you can customize the data directory structure, but you will need to modify the corresponding configurations in the config file.